I felt a little bit like it wasn't 100%
secure, but let me tell you that's some
good advice on a hook grip that I got
that allowed me to do 240. Now, let me
just tell you a bit of context here. I
used to compete in powerlifting. Last
competition was in 2018. Lots of great
stuff happened since then, such as COVID
and I got stronger for a couple of years
ready to compete and it just never
happened. And then I kind of told myself
by the time I got to 40 years old, you
know, that's enough. Competition at a
high level was a lot for me. A lot of
commitment. I've got business, I got
family, and the more I spent competing,
the less time I spent doing those
things. So, I just, you know, promised
myself 40 years old, you know, I'm going
to throw it in. So, I still love
training, you know that, and I'm still
quite strong. However, you know, growing
up as a powerlifter, I just, you know,
never really was introduced to the idea
of hook grip. It wasn't a thing back
then. And every time, you know, like it
was kind of coming in and people were
getting pretty strong with the hook
grip, so I'd try it and it hurt, so then
I'd stop it. I'd often try it as I
approach a powerlifting competition
thinking, oh, maybe it's stronger. It
failed and I only had a few more weeks
to a competition, so I said, "Forget it.
I'm going to go back to my mixed grip."
And every time I tried it, it just,
which wasn't a lot of times, it was like
less than a handful of times, it just
hurt. And from my recollection, I would
say that I was given the wrong advice
and my best hook grip deadlift was 200
kg. I don't even think I got 200. I
think 200 kg when I tried it, it fell
out because it just hurt so much. And I
would say it's from the wrong advice.
Now, I saw a post on Instagram not long
ago and I want to shout this person out,
but I don't know who it is. It was not
someone that I followed, it just came up
and he basically said, "A lot of people
are given the wrong advice on hook grip
and I'm going to show you the right
advice, to put it simply. And he
basically said, "The advice that you're
given is to just kind of like hold the
bar and let it hang on your fingers,
which is what I thought." I was taught,
you know, to jam the webbing of your
hand into the into the bar, grab with
with two fingers, grab your thumbnail,
and then just let it hang. And I looked
at that and I thought, "That makes
sense, because letting it hang allows
you to kind of like have longer arms."
You know, when I'm doing a mixed grip,
I've got to grab it in the the base of
my hand, whereas with the hook grip, I
thought, "Yeah, that's the cheat code.
It's an extra centimeter of range of
motion that I didn't have to travel."
Trying that, the 200 kg, I remember it
felt like my thumb was going to rip off.
It wasn't that it was hard on the skin,
it just felt like all of the weight was
just on my thumb and it was just
pulling. And that was it for me. I was
like, "Damn, these people that are
deadlifting 400 and 500 kg" No one's
really doing 500 kg hook grip. Carlton
just did it, not in competition, but
damn that guy is strong. Anyway, a lot
of people are doing 400 or 1,000 lb and
plus hook grip. Dan Green owns the world
record for 487
and 1/2 kg with a hook grip. That's the
most anyone's ever held onto in
competition. And anyway, so I just
thought, "Damn, these guys have thumbs
made of steel or whatever it is. It just
hurts so much." Anyhow, so then the
advice that I saw was not to let it
hang, and you need to grab onto it. You
need to actually grab onto it. So I
thought, "Okay." Anyway, so I tried it.
That was last week, and I got 220 kg.
And I thought, "Okay, interesting,
yeah." And that was kind of my limit.
And then I saw another post media.
Again, I don't follow this guy. I don't
know who it is. And if you know who it
is, tag it below so that I can give him
a shout out and do a video a reaction
video showing that, you know, a little
bit of success. Of course, that's only
240 kg, which I'm going to talk about in
a moment. But it was a different
technique again. And he basically said
this was a technique that he'd learned
from Yury Belkin. Yury Belkin used to
be, you know, the man. He hasn't
competed in a long time. Like that guy
used to be kind of like the aura that
Kaltin Engulbrekt has now. Back then,
Yuri Belkin was like, "What's wrong with
this guy? This guy is you know, he's a
freak. You know, he's from Russia. He's
not even big and he's doing crazy lifts
all this stuff." Anyway, he was the man.
And so basically, that's what they said.
He goes, "I learned this from Yuri
Belkin." He said, this is the technique.
So this is my first time trying it and I
got to say, 240 kg is not a huge of
course, but way more than 200 that I
wasn't able to hold before. Like I got
to say, this is a successful way of
doing it and you should do it too. So,
if you want to do the hook grip, which I
believe is the strongest grip in
deadlifting with bare hands of course,
the strongest grip is with straps. But
in powerlifting you're not allowed to
wear straps. So, the different grips are
so one of them I wouldn't consider a an
option is double overhand grip. Don't do
that. The barbell will roll out of your
hands. It's weak. Don't do it. The most
common grip that you see is a mixed
grip, which is where one hand is rolling
the bar one way and the other one
because it's reversed, it's rolling at
the different direction. So therefore it
doesn't roll. And that's kind of the
most common grip. That's what I
typically use in competition. And that's
the most common grip. However, the
negatives to that, if you consider it a
negative, I did a video about this
saying it can be done without injuring
yourself, is the fear of injuring the
bicep with the supinated hand. If you
bend the elbow a little bit, the muscles
that are responsible for doing that is
the biceps and they're not strong enough
to lift this weight and that's how
biceps tear. I did a video talking about
Benedikt Magnusson when he deadlifted
1,015 lb. And when I spoke to him, he
said he's extending his triceps as hard
as he can. So he's maximally contracting
his tricep. When you maximally contract
the opposing muscles, it allows you to
relax those muscles that we don't want
working, which is the biceps. So, that's
the the key and I never really had a
problem there, but it wasn't as strong,
you know, for me my best deadlift was
340 kg and grip was an issue for me at
that point with this mixed grip. And I
always look at the strongest deadlifters
and it's like they're hook grip, they're
hook grip. Why can't I do it? Anyway,
long story short, I would say all you
upcoming powerlifters, I reckon you
should get into hook grip. I think
that's the strongest grip. You know, if
I had my time again, that's what I would
have done. But for me, it was like, you
know, I was always competing, so I
didn't really have the time or I didn't
give myself the time and I didn't really
have anyone showing me how to do it
properly. So anyway, check this out. The
thumb. So what you want to do is when
you when you start, you wrap that part
of your thumb around the barbell. So you
internally rotate to grab the bar,
right? Now from here, what you want to
do is place your thumb in between these
two fingers. So it's not just grabbing
the thumb now. That's how I always
thought it was, grabbing the thumb now.
But these guys said, put the thumb in
between those two fingers here, right?
So here, put the thumb in between those
two fingers and then twist. That's the
hook. So I thought, okay. Hey, if
there's someone out there, hook grip
expert out there that thinks you got it
wrong, whatever, put it in the comments.
This is my first day of hook gripping
this way and I've got to say, it worked,
right? So that part of the thumb, wrap
it around, put the thumb in between
those two fingers and then externally
rotate. So that part of the thumb in
between the fingers, right? And then
externally rotate. And that's the hook.
And don't just let it hang either. So I
didn't just let it hang. I'm grabbing on
tight. Anyway, that's 240 kg. Nothing to
brag about, of course. Now I'm going to
tell you a bit more of a story as to why
I'm doing this. I herniated a disc.
That's something that I don't really
disclose a lot is my injuries. It just
pisses me off and when I injure myself
and I just go about it in my own way, in
silence and then I just, you know, I
don't know if you guys have had injuries
before, but for me it's just like, damn,
everything has to go on hold right now.
So I haven't been posting a huge amount
of my own lifting content, if you may
have noticed. I've just been, you know,
that's the path that I've taken. I'm an
educator, so I'm teaching people how to
lift. But I promise you, I've been
training in the background. Now anyhow,
so what happened when I herniated my
disc? How did I do that? Of all things,
I started jiu-jitsu again and my coach,
legend Sebastian Attard, he's one of
Australia's best. He's one of the
world's best black belts. A legend of a
guy and I was doing sessions with him
and he basically said, you know, I was
talking about mobility. And when I came
to him I'm like, this is my biggest
concern is I'm very stiff. I've never
really worked on my mobility as a
powerlifter, you know, what are your
suggestions for me? And he's like, well,
here's a few things that I think you
need to be mobile in. And he basically
laid on his back. He goes, you need to
be able to get your your knees up like
when you're in the guard like you need
to be able to get these up here no
without hustle. Like and I'm like, okay,
well, that's a really stiff for me. So,
he's like, yeah, work on your mobility
there. He didn't give me like tools or
anything like that. It's like those are
things that come naturally for him. He's
just naturally mobile there from playing
his sport. So, anyway, as the extremist
that I am, I went home and I was
aggressively stretching this position.
Like I was curling up in a ball and and
aggressively getting in this position
and just holding holding. And then, you
know, I didn't really think too much
about it. It was just a stretch. Anyway,
woke up in the middle of the night to do
a piss and I stood up and this leg was
just like, whoa, it was just hot and it
was just like just excruciating pain.
So, I did a piss and I came back down
and I'm laying in bed just thinking,
what the [__] has happened? Excuse my
language. Anyway, went to sleep, woke
up, pain was gone. So, I'm like, all
right. Anyway, came back into the gym.
There wasn't any pain there and I
thought, you know what, I was meant to
squat that day. I'm not going to squat.
I'm not going to load my spine because
something happened. I don't know what it
was. So, I did leg press instead.
Anyway, I did leg press and everything
was feeling good, loaded it up and and
went to like full range of motion leg
press. And then, nothing, not much. And
then I went home, got up to piss the
next night and the exact same thing.
This time the pain didn't go away and I
couldn't get back to sleep. It was just
excruciating pain on on this hip,
everywhere on this hip. Long story
short, two days I was laying on my back.
I couldn't get up. It was just that
painful. Two days laying on my back with
my legs up in the air over the couch.
That was the only position I found some
sort of comfort. Anyhow, that was my
injury. So, it's like a little bit
depressing. So, I haven't really been
loading the back like I, you know, I
canceled all of my sessions, I can't I
stopped doing jujitsu. I wasn't able to
I can't wait to get back into it, might
I add. It's not the jujitsu to blame, it
is my stretching of all things.
Aggressive stretching in a position that
I didn't really build up to. So, this is
now 5 weeks post injury. 5 weeks post
injury and I would say it took about 3
weeks 3 weeks for that pain in my leg.
Like, I was able to I wasn't training my
lower body. I was doing leg extensions
and hamstring curls and upper body. So,
for my upper body I was doing bench
press with my feet up on the bench and
exercises that didn't involve my spine.
So, I was doing that for the first 3
weeks. And what would happen is, you
know, when I was walking around, so the
pain that I experienced was walking
around, I'd stand up for a little bit
and then, you know, after about a minute
or so of standing on my leg it was just
that excruciating heat and and just
debilitating pain around this leg this
hip. And I'd have to sit down and the
pain was still there and it'd take a
couple of minutes to wear off. So, that
was my life for 3 weeks. And then after
3 weeks, yeah, I was able to last a day
without pain. I'm still scared to load
it, but I was able to last a day without
pain. And because of that, you know,
with me and rehabilitation, my rule is
as soon as you can start safely loading
your structures, do it. Exercise and
training is the best way to actually
rehabilitate. It's corrective exercise
rather than just rest. So, rest for me
is kind of the last option and it's the
only option that you do if everything
else hurts. So, that was me for the
first 3 weeks. Came back into back
extensions, you know, and I love 45°
back extensions. I'm going to be doing
some of that today. And I was just, you
know, started with no weight, high rep
sets, sets of 30. Got up to, I don't
know, 48 kg kettlebell. Over there, 48
kg kettlebell, sets of 30. And then last
week I'm back into deadlifts. So, last
week I did 220 kg hook grip. So, that's
why I'm introducing hook grip because I
know, I mean, before the injury I was up
to about 310 kg deadlift. I don't want
to go back to that level of load. I
can't. So, I figure because I can't go
heavy, I'm going to introduce hook grip
and condition my thumbs while I'm in the
position that I can't go heavy. Do you
get it? So, that's kind of This is my
limiter, 240 kg today, which I'm pretty
happy about. But yeah, this is me
training for back rehab, right? So, last
week I also did what I'm about to do
now, which is one of my favorite ways to
build strength regardless of your goal,
to build strength off the floor, to
build strength of your lockout, to build
to rehabilitate your spine. It's a pause
deficit deadlift. So, last week I did
doubles on 200 kg. So, today I don't
know. I'll go a little bit heavier than
that. So, that's my top set, top set of
240 hook grip, got a nice new technique.
And if you like it, you should use it.
It is a little bit painful, just so you
know. I had a like pretty bruised thumbs
for the whole week last week. So, that's
why I'm not going to do a tons of volume
now on it. Like that's the exposure.
Now, I'm going to be using straps for my
accessory work. So, next up is the pause
deficit deadlift. So, last week when I
did that session, my back felt great
afterwards. Especially the confidence to
know, like I did 220 kg. It's like,
"Okay, cool. I can lift." Deadlifting
wasn't what injured me. Like it It was
extreme flexion that injured my disc. It
wasn't ready for that. Anyhow, it's very
important to know. So, for me with
rehab, it's very important to know that
I have the strength to function in life.
So, obviously deadlifting 240 kg is is
heavier than everything that I'm going
to be picking up in day-to-day life, but
it gives me the confidence to go about
my usual tasks. Anyhow, let's get back
into this. I'm going to do my favorite
accessory exercise. That's not training
stimulus, one set of one on 240 kg,
reintroducing load to my body, as well
as conditioning my thumbs for the hook
grip. But now is the real training
stimulus. And now this is the rehab. So,
what I'm going to do is progress from
the doubles on 200 200 kg. Maybe I'll
just do the same weight, but I'll do
triples or something like that with
perfect technique. So, that's the key.
So, I'm still scared to kind of put
myself in a flexed position because it
was flexion that aggravated my spine.
So, spine pain isn't just limited to
it's like uh this is like one it's
everything hurts the spine. It's
typically like flexion can hurt it,
extension can hurt it, compression can
hurt it, shear forces can hurt it. You
got to figure out what's the root of the
pain. For me, I'm pretty confident it's
a flexion intolerant. So, therefore, I
need to make sure that I'm not using
weights that are going to pull my body
into flexion. So, that's what I've got
to do today. That's the objective. So,
what I'm doing is another feel set. So,
I'm going to strip the bar and I'm going
to do pause deficit deadlifts. That's
going to be my strength exercise. So, a
lot of people say deadlifts are
dangerous. Your approach to deadlifting
is dangerous. If all you do is come in
and max out. That's not me maxing out.
It's heavy single, but it's not a you
know, this is you know, 60% not 60%.
What am I talking about? 80% I should
say. My math ain't mathing. Whatever 240
kg is of 310, that's what percentage it
is. It's a low RPE, right? There's
plenty of repetitions in reserve. You
know, so that's how I recommend building
the confidence to go about your
day-to-day tasks with a back injury.
Don't fear deadlifts. Fear loading the
deadlifts incorrectly, okay? Maxing out
all the time is what gives deadlifts the
bad name, right? So, when people say
deadlifts are bad dangerous, your
approach to maxing out on deadlifts is
what's dangerous. Enough talking. I'm
going to re-warm my pause deficit
deadlift. I'm using straps for this,
right? So, don't let grip be the
limiting factor. So, I was intentionally
making grip the limiting factor. That's
what held me back from maxing out. Now,
the objective isn't maxing out. It's
intelligent training and rehab for my
back. So, what does that mean? I'm going
to open a can of worms here. Whenever
you're building back from rehab, my
advice, you know, a lot of people are
you know, teaching people things like
Jefferson curls and not to fear flexion.
Yeah, don't fear flexion. Except, right
now my injury is flexion intolerant,
right? So, what I want to do is
reintroduce strength work to my back
with a neutral position before I start
exploring more range of motion in
flexion positions. So, jiu-jitsu, trust
me, I'm going to be back in jiu-jitsu
and I'll be taking my spine in all sorts
of flex positions, but the
rehabilitation process, you know, it
takes a while. So, reintroducing spine
loading exercises in a neutral position
is my first step to rehab. So, check
this out. So, no belt. I'm going to be
using my, you know, all of the
deadlifting muscles to maintain neutral.
How's the technique? You don't have to
answer that. It's a rhetorical question.
The technique was perfect. Thanks.
Anyway, yeah, I know it was good because
this is not huge weight. So, that was my
feel set. Where's my jack? I'm going to
go to 200 kg. Last week I did doubles.
This week I'll do a triple. It's not
aggressive. It's um gradual. Gradual
confidence building.
>> [sighs]
>> Pretty comfortable.
Pretty comfortable. I really like that.
You know, no belt, not taking it to
fail. I looked back at my 240 that I
just did cuz I like to look back and it
was very slow. And good technique, but
very, very slow. So, that's not because
I'm intentionally trying to move slowly.
I am definitely guiding my hands. It's
like "Oh, is that slipping? Hold on
tight." So a lot of the times when
you're max lifting, your grip can get in
the way of good lifting technique. So I
was, you know, new enough about my
deadlift to hold the right position, but
sometimes if you're worrying so much
about your grip, that can make you
change the shape of your back and change
your technique, which I'm sure it did a
little bit. It slowed me down. Anyway,
here. I'm happy with that. I'll do one
more set. Like, this is how I
reintroduce strength and confidence
here. You got to reintroduce load,
right? That back extension, I would say
that's the MVP. It's the most valuable
player. I'm sure you knew that, but just
in case. I hate acronyms. I tell people,
"Don't you [__] acronym me." Anyway,
that's the star of the show, the back
extensions. High rep back extensions is
one of my favorite tools. High reps and
loaded. So, last week I did 48 kg for
30. It wasn't like full deep range of
motion. It was kind of like the full
depth range of motion.
Yeah, it felt a bit uncomfortable.
Anyway, whatever. I'm going to try and
progress on that today. So last week I
did 48 kg kettlebell. I don't know what
the next size up is, but that's what I'm
going to grab.
So unloaded, I'm going like hang.
I don't want to do that when I have the
weight in my hands. So I'm kind of
sitting and hanging.
And just kind of like
decompressing my
spine.
Unloaded. Right?
It sounds like it's a really nice thing
to decompress it, but yeah, gently,
right? So that's just me feeling it now.
I just did a few sets of not much. I
don't know. I'm not really counting.
It's not fatiguing. So then, like, I
know that I was doing this weight, but
I'm not hanging with this weight. Watch.
I'll show you. So this is How much is
that? 30
32 kg.
So I'm still engaged. I'm I'm just like
allowing my spine to just
decompress. I'm I'm still engaged.
This
targets the muscle. It challenges the
muscle in a different length to a
deadlift. So, the deadlift challenges
Well, the main muscles that are moving
is the glutes. That's really it. The
glutes lengthen and shorten. And the
most load is placed on the glutes on a
deadlift in the fully lengthened
position. This changes that so that most
of the load So, when I'm at the bottom,
that's not where I feel most of the
load. I feel most of the load at the
top. So, this strengthens the glutes in
the more contracted position. Hip joint
extension, that's where it places most
of the load. So, it's the same action,
but it's a different loading profile.
So, what's better? Targeting the glutes
in the fully lengthened position or
targeting it in the fully shortened
position? There's a lot of research that
talks about the benefits for hypertrophy
of length-biased training being superior
to targeting the muscle in the shortened
position. Now, I look at that as cool,
but I want all ranges of motion to be
strong. So, for me, I don't have to
choose one or the other. And the best
way to do it is to combine both. So,
this is how we avoid exercise
redundancy. So, we've got good mornings,
RDLs, all the different variations of
the deadlift, they all target the same
muscle in the same way. So, we choose
one. In this instance, it was a pause
deficit deadlift. Now, I don't just
choose my second favorite exercise. That
could be an RDL next. It's like I've
already kind of hit the muscles in that
same angle, which is targeting the
glutes in the fully lengthened position.
So, now I don't just go to the second
best exercise. I choose an exercise
that's going to complement the main
work. And that is targeting the muscle
in a slightly different joint angle or
force curve, which is hitting the glutes
in the fully shortened position. So,
it's a perfect pairing, two exercises
that complement each other. Deadlift,
any deadlift, conventional, RDL, good
morning, targets the glutes in the fully
lengthened position. 45° hip extension,
90° hip extension, hip thrusts and glute
bridges target the glutes in the
shortened position. So, it's not as if
45 is better than 90, which is better
than hip thrusts. They're all kind of
equally as good as each other in their
own way. But, don't do all of them.
That's called exercise redundancy.
Choose one from one category, which is
fully lengthened. Choose another one
from the other category, which is fully
contracted. Combine those two, and you
have a pretty close to perfect glute
session. And now I need to breathe. So,
last week I did 48. The next increment
up is 56. I'm not going to hang to that
full deep stretch with this. I'm just
going to
feel it.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> Okay.
The hard part The hard part of that is
holding the weight. Like my upper back
was going
>> [laughter]
>> Ah, but that's okay.
Um 15 reps, I'll do
one more set. Don't need to do a whole
bunch of sets.
Two sets of everything. So, well, one
top set of the single,
two sets of pause deficit deadlifts, two
sets of
15 here, and that's
my back rehab. After this, I'm going to
do some quadricep work as well. A lot of
the times when I train quads, I'll add
in hamstring curls. It's a low-cost
exercise, and a great way of getting
away with adding additional volume
without the fatigue interfering with the
next sessions.
So, what do I mean by that? On quad day,
so squat day, it's all quadricep and,
you know, leg extension and hip
extension focus, but then I add
hamstring curls to complement it. And
that's not going to interfere with my
deadlift day.
>> [sighs]
>> So, because it's such a low cost
exercise, great way to introduce more
volume.
Now, on the flip side, on my deadlift
day, on my posterior chain day, I'm
going to finish this with adding in some
leg extension, which is a great way of
adding in a little bit more quadriceps
volume. You know, leg extension, it's a
low cost exercise. Low cost and fatigue.
It's not going to
get in the way of my squat session. If
anything, it'll complement it. The
optimal training frequency for any
muscle is two times per week, but when
you get stronger, you got to factor in
fatigue. So, anyway,
one more set there, and then I'm going
to do
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> leg extensions.
So, last exercise of the day, leg
extensions. Check this out. I got this
extra bolt-on piece of equipment.
So, this increases the range of motion
for leg extension, which is just
perfect. So, see how much my knees
bending, but that's not all I do. I get
the bench and then I lie back. So, one
muscle of the quadriceps that this
targets that squats don't target, so
this targets all quads. So, people say
it hits one of the quadricep muscles, it
doesn't. It hits all of them, but squats
don't hit all of them. Squats miss out
on the rectus femoris because it crosses
two joints. And when they do a squat, or
you're bending at the hips and bending
at the knee at the same time, which is
conflicting actions of that particular
muscle, which is the rectus femoris. So,
to train that rectus femoris, you want
to isolate it by fixing the hips in
place. But, here's the next thing. Don't
just fix it anyway. A lot of leg
extensions you're upright like this. If
you get the option to lean back, that
increases the stretch on that muscle,
and then adding this in allows more knee
flexion. So, this is a very long range
of motion to get the most out of the leg
extension.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> I think I'm going to do three sets of
that. So, all of the other ones were two
sets, two sets, two sets, but I was
accumulating more exercises. So, that
was Well, I did five total sets. This
one is my only exercise, so I'll do
three sets. Three sets of 12. I'll go
heavy on the next set. And that's all.
You don't need to watch me do more sets
of the same thing. Anyway, slightly
different angle for today's session.
Here's a bit of a update on my journey
at the moment. Still training, still
educating, but I go through ups and
downs as well. Um, you know, the last
few weeks, bit of a down for me for my
training. I've never had herniated disc
before, you know? A lot of the times I
teach people, you know, every injury you
can think of with weights, I've had it.
But, yeah, I can tell you I've never had
that before, but now I do know what that
feels like, and I'm in the middle of it.
I'm not in the clear yet. So, something
I know about back pain is it actually
doesn't, in many instances, on average,
it doesn't take long to recover from.
What tends to happen though is people
reinjure themselves very shortly
afterwards. I'm not so I'm just saying
in general. In general, some back
injury, some herniated disc can last
long, long time, years. Uh, lucky for
me, that wasn't the case, and in many
people's cases, it's actually just a few
weeks. But, the problem is most people
go back to whatever they were doing
before the injury, they think they're in
the clear, and they go and reinjure
themselves again. So, this is something
that I am aware of, and that's why my
rehabilitation process, I'm not scared
of lifting weights, I'm going to lift
weights. That's the best thing for this
rehabilitation process is build back the
strength and the confidence to go about
what I'm doing. But, I just need to be
very mindful with everything that I'm
doing, and eventually, I don't know how
long, maybe in another month or so, I'll
probably start, you know, increasing the
ranges of motion gradually with my
mobility work, with my spine flexion.
Anyway, hope you enjoyed today's
session. I'll see you next time. I have
a personal question. Sure. Do you think
injuring yourself makes you a better
coach?
Yeah, you know, the dumbest things that
I've done have made me a better coach.
I've done all of the, you know, double
day training sessions, the 10 by 10,
stupid injuries, training with bad
technique. And when I hear people argue
about whether it's okay or not, it's
like, well, a lot of people don't know.
A lot of people have been doing terrible
technique in their younger years and
they get great numbers and they come out
as a young lifter saying, "Form doesn't
matter. Technique doesn't matter. Just
lift ugly and do whatever you like and
you'll be fine." It's like, yeah, I know
you're fine now in your young ages, but
give yourself 10 more years of lifting
that way and then come back and tell me
how you are. Now, that's something that
I definitely have experience in. I have
experience in, you know, lifting
mindlessly and carelessly and using
terrible technique and injuring myself.
So, yeah, I do think, um, you know, with
the expense of sounding like I'm tooting
my own horn and saying I'm a great
coach, I definitely know that there's a
lot of value in the mistakes that I've
made, the injuries that I've had, uh, in
being able to teach people correctly so
that I make the mistakes for you. So,
yeah, I do.